This section is on project control basics,
or what I like to call project control 101,
and you will need your gauges so you can control your projects
by measuring and monitoring your activities.
I mean think about your car dashboard for a moment.
You have a speedometer,
you have something that tells you how much gas you have left in the tank,
and these are your gauges to help you measure and
monitor the performance of your car.
And a project is no different.
We're going to use different tools and techniques to help you
measure and monitor the progress of your projects.
Are we are budget?
Do you think we will meet the schedule?
Are we meeting the customer's expectations?
You may be constantly asked about the budget,
about the schedule, and being surprised,
astonished,
maybe even overwhelmed by how the customer's expectations will keep changing.
You will be asked these questions all the time,
and I mean all the time, daily and maybe even hourly at critical times.
Primarily you'll be asked by people like project sponsors,
stakeholders, managers, customers, and maybe even team members.
And how do you answer?
Yes, yes, and yes.
Hopefully you can.
In order to truly answer these and other questions you'll need project controls.
That's what this module is all about.
Now let's see just how to do that.
But first a couple of definitions.
Project control,
and that's the tools and processes employed to monitor
and measure the progress of a project.
This module will discuss the tools and the processes in order to manage
the progress and success of your projects so we can in fact answer those
questions that we saw in the previous slide.
Okay, now let's see who just those project sponsors really are.
Project Sponsors.
Now these are the people that have a vested interest
in the success of the project.
Okay,
sometimes we use the term stakeholders to be equivalent with the term sponsors,
and they may be business leads say over marketing or manufacturing,
engineering; finance,
they're very keen on how the project is going from a
cost standpoint; executive management,
they're usually driving the reason why you're doing
the project in the first place,
maybe they're trying to meet certain customer goals; customers and
users very important as well; and IT management,
those that are actually going to implement the project,
deploy it, support it.
So the better you can monitor and measure the progress of your
projects the happier these sponsors will be.
And if they're happy, trust me, you'll be happy. Okay let's move on.